In the last video,
you were introduced to
the final course assessment
in which you will have to
develop three major aspects of
the procession stack
of a self-driving car.
This lesson, we
will expose you to
some algorithmic
concepts that will
be useful to finish
this assessment.
The first thing to be aware of
while attempting the assignment,
is the coordinate frames
you are working in.
All the required 3D estimation
will be performed in
the camera coordinate frame.
That includes the ground plane,
distance to impact, and
other 3D quantities.
However, the camera as
a sensor is usually
oriented with its y-axis
pointing downward.
What does that mean for you
while working on the assessment?
The only thing you will
need to be careful about,
is the sign of
the height value of pixels.
Points higher than the camera
will have a negative height,
while points lower than
the camera will have
a positive height.
The second topic you
should be aware of,
is how to solve
linear least squares
problems for plane
estimation in Python.
For this part of the assessment,
you will have a couple
of alternatives.
We provide you with
a function that
does the plane estimation for
you using singular value
decomposition or SVD for short.
However, if you
want to challenge,
you could try solving
the plane estimation problem
yourself by solving
the least squares problem using
the NumPy native function lstsq.
If you choose this path,
be careful to choose
more than three points for
each iteration of RANSAC,
as the solver might not provide
any useful results in
certain edge cases where
the system is poorly conditioned.
A greater challenge
would be to implement
SVD plane fitting from scratch.
SVD almost always provides
a numerically stable solution.
In addition, it
can be faster than
the NumPy lstsq function.
It's up to you which path to
take to estimate the plane.
As long as the plane is correct,
the method that generated it
will be given full marks.
The second perception task
that needs to be performed,
is lane boundary detection.
The output of the Hough
transform line detection,
is any line belonging to
the boundary of the lane
including horizontal ones and
lines on the far side
of sidewalks.
Furthermore, each of
the lane boundaries will have
multiple associated output lines
from the Hough transform
line estimator.
You are required to filter
out all irrelevant lines
and merge relevant lines to
produce one line
per lane boundary.
To filter out the
horizontal lines,
we can rely on the slope
of the estimated lines.
Horizontal lines and images
tend to have a slope
very close to zero.
However, we also want to
remove heavily slanted lines.
As such, a threshold
is introduced as
a lower limit of
allowed slopes for the output
of this filtering step.
The exact value of
this threshold needs to be
determined empirically,
try values between 0.1
and 0.3 for best results.
Having removed horizontal lines
from the output of
the half transform,
you will need to cluster
similar lines and then
merge them to produce
a single line per lane boundary.
A simple clustering algorithm
would be to first choose
a cluster center at
random from the
remaining filter lines,
then add to the cluster
any lines that have
a similar slope or intercept
to the cluster line.
A line is considered close to
the cluster center if
the difference between
its slope and slope of
the cluster center is less
than a specific slope threshold,
and the distance between
its intercept and
the intercept of
the cluster center is less than
a specific intercept
threshold as well.
The slope difference threshold is
usually chosen to be
a maximum of 0.3,
while the intercept
difference threshold
is defined in pixels,
and is usually chosen
between 20 and 50 pixels.
You will need to test
various values before
arriving at a satisfactory
threshold for the assessment.
The final step to produce
one line per lane boundary,
is to merge lines
inside each cluster.
The simplest way to do
so is through averaging
the slope and intercept
of all cluster members.
The final concept that you will
need to finish the assessment,
is how to filter out
uncertain output of
object detectors using the output
from the semantic segmentation.
The output of object detection
is usually reliable.
But for this assessment,
you are given a high
recall low precision
detector that detects
all objects in the scene,
but also provides
some false positives.
You are required to use
the output from
semantic segmentation to
eliminate these false positives
before estimating the distance
to the obstacles.
The results should
be bounding boxes
that reliably contain obstacles.
To perform this filtering,
you will need to use
the semantic segmentation output
to count the number of pixels in
the bounding box that
have the same category
as the classification output
from the 2D object detector.
The trick here, is
that this number will
depend on the size
of the bounding box.
You will need to normalize
the pixel count by the area of
the bounding box
before attempting to
filter out the detections
with a threshold.
The final normalized count is
equivalent to computing
the area inside
the bounding box occupied by
pixels belonging to
the correct category.
At this point, you
should be ready to
tackle the final
assessment confidently.
As a final note,
I encourage you to think of
different ways you could
achieve the final output
for the required tasks,
other than the suggested outline.
I hope you enjoy this assessment
and find it beneficial
to your learning.